CNS 2015 - Workshops
####################
:date: 2015-08-14 14:41:46
:author: ankur
:category: Research
:tags: Computational neuroscience, Fedora
:slug: cns-2015-workshops
:summary: I recently attended the conference for computational neuroscience (CNS 2015) in Prague. This post is a summary of the event. These have not been proofread at all. They're just what I noted during the conference.

The notes have not been proofread. Please do your research before you pick anything from this post. It is meant to be a rough sketch of everything that I heard and noted at the conference. Since quite a bit of this is new to me, it is bound to be inaccurate, unspecific, and possibly even incorrectly quoted.


Dendritic growth and wiring workshop
------------------------------------

#. Hippocampus - theta oscillation and place cell firing -> directly proportional to locomotion speed.
#. Place related firing of place cells is dendritic function. 
#. Can control the speed of locomotion by external stimulation -> reaches a plateau.
#. CITE: Fuhrmann 2015
#. Cerebellar synaptic units: bouton and synapses placements and distance distribution

   #. Double boutons - split and meet 2 neurons.
   #. Purkinje cells have access to many boutons - lots of boutons close by
   #. Not same as interneurons which have few boutons around
   #. Peter's rule of synapse formation.
   #. PF connectivity is constrained by volume exclusion.
   
#. Deconstructing and reconstructing neuronal morphology - George Ascoli

   #. Biochemistry is very similar to muscles
   #. B(ranch)A(dvance/extend)R(etract)T(urn)
   #. CITE: Zhou et al. 2002
   #. Neuromorpho.org
   #. BOOK: Trees of the brain, roots of the mind

#. Computational modelling of synaptic and dendritic plasticity in the hippocampus - Peter Jedlicka

   #. Neural activity -> synaptic plasticity -> synaptic efficiency -> neural activity ...
   #. Dentate Gyrus - (LTP + heterosynaptic STD) (homoeostatic mechanism)
   #. Model based on STDP and BCM
   #. STDP:

      #. LTP amplitude and :math: `\tau`
      #. LTD amplitude and :math: `\tau`

   #. BCM homoeostasis rule LTP/LTD amplitudes vary, proportional to integrated spike count (60 second).
   #. MPP and LPP are spontaneously active.
   #. Removing BCM homoeostasis/metaplasticity deteriorates performance
   #. If the mechanism is too quick, plasticity is hampered - why?
   #. Working on dendritic remodelling following lesions -> computational modelling
   #. Functional relevance of dendritic retraction
   #. Algorithms based on wiring optimisations
   #. BAPs are selectively stronger in the denervated dendritic layer
   #. At a dendritic morphology level
   #. Homoeostasis following dendritic retraction
   #. Smaller neurons fire more because their resistance is higher(?)
   #. Compensatory enhancement of the intrinsic excitability -> in spite of lower number of stimulated
   #. Excitability homoeostasis is present in all dendritic trees which undergo lengthening or shortening of their branches while keeping synaptic density constant
   #. Friedemann is working on homoeostasis and time scales

#. Different inputs project on different parts of the dendritic tree

   #. Both BAPs and Calcium spikes are involved in synaptic plasticity.
   #. Inhibition can switch plasticity on and off - hypothesis
   #. BAP (sodium spike)
   #. An inhibitory neuron makes about 12 connections to a post synaptic neuron?
   #. Calcium spikes cause soma to burst
   #. This is all a GABA-a inhibition

Plasticity workshop
-------------------

#. Concepts

   #. Pathways are different for LTP and LTD and so on
   #. Synaptic plasticity

#. Hebbian plasticity and STDP is unstable.

#. Homoeostasis

   #. On synapses
      #. Local - homosynaptic
      #. Global - heterosynaptic

   #. Change firing properties

      #. Threshold
      #. Intrinsic excitability

   #. Modulation of plasticity rule (metaplasticity)
   #. Anti-hebbian
   #. Putative role of glial cells
   #. Synaptic scaling - slow (:math:`\tau_{home} = 1~day`)
   #. CITE: Kech 2013 - lesioning is followed by upscaling synapses also
   #. CITE: Zenke 2013 - metaplastic triplet
   #. All of them have the same behaviour - oscillations if the time scle of STDP is much larger than that homoeostatic mechanism.
   #. Functional significance of oscillations in weights? No answer yet.

#. Synaptic plasticity and scaling their role in memory formation

   #. Can SPM explain dynamics of memory?
   #. Memory consolidation during sleep -> important
   #. Once an assembly (memory) has been formed, they can be consolidated by a completely unspecific stimulus
   #. Slow wave sleep is important for consolidation
   #. Recall by partial stimulus causes weakening of assembly because of imbalance of activity - recall acts as perturbation
   #. Similarly, learning a related, overlapping task also has the tendency to act as a perturbation.

#. Modelling the dynamic interaction between hebbian and homoeostatic plasticity (synaptic scaling)

   #. Hebbian is fast
   #. Homoestatic is slow
   #. How can homoeostatic plasticity be powerful enough and slow enough at the same time?
   #. If homoeostasis is slow, it can result in oscillations
   #. Data from monocular deprivation
   #. TNF-alpha mediates homoeostatic plasticity
   #. Spines fluctuate - explain volume distribution in absence of neuronal activity
   #. Fluctuation is directly proportional to spine size
   #. CITE: Yasamatsu 2008
   #. Small spines tend to stay for longer periods
   #. CITE: Kasai et al 2010
   #. Spike fluctuation are responsible for synaptic normalisation (hypothesis!)
   #. At a population level spike volume exhibits bistability

Open source brain workshop
--------------------------

#. NeuroML - XML for computational neuroscience
#. neuroconstruct
#. neuromorpho
#. channelpedia
#. Allen database
#. pyNeuroML and jNeuroML
#. Openworm

   #. Cell by cell 3D neurmechanical model
   #. C. elegans
   #. 302 neurons
   #. 956 cells
   #. Fully sequenced genome
   #. Current state:

      #. Ready issues are mentioned on GitHub main page like Travis build status
      #. Wormsim

Large scale modelling workshop
------------------------------

#. Visual cortex in NEST - Sacha Van Albada
#. Towards rewiring of full scale cortical networks - Rinke and Butz

   #. Synaptogenesis

      #. Directly proportional to f(distance)
      #. Direclty proportional to f(availability of neurites)
      #. Time per axon: :math:`O(n)`
      #. Time total :math:`O(n^2)`

   #. Deletion:

      #. Time per axon: :math:`O(1)`
      #. Time total :math:`O(n^2)`
      #. For increasing number of neurons, the runtime increase drastically. (:math:`10^3 \rightarrow 100ms, 10^4 \rightarrow 10s, 10^5 \rightarrow 16m, 10^6 \rightarrow 27 hours`)
      #. The probability calculation for 1 neurite takes 100ms
      #. Optimisation method is inspired by the Barnes-Hut n-body method.

         #. Formation

            #. Tree construction - :math:`O(n log n)`
            #. Time per axon - :math:`O(log n^2n)`
            #. Total: :math:`O(nlog^2n)`

         #. Deletion

            #. Time per axon - :math:`O(1)`
            #. Total: :math:`O(n)`

         #. Runtime (:math:`10^3 \rightarrow 10ms, 10^4 \rightarrow 200ms, 10^5 \rightarrow 3s, 10^6 \rightarrow 40s, 10^7 \rightarrow 10min`)
         #. Further parallelisation will reduce times even further
         #. Current and future:

            #. Validate results
            #. Parallelise
