CNS 2015 Day 2 and 3
####################
:date: 2015-08-14 14:00:59
:author: ankur
:category: Research
:tags: Computational neuroscience, Fedora
:slug: cns-2015-day-2-and-3
:summary: I recently attended the conference for computational neuroscience (CNS 2015) in Prague. This post is a summary of the event. These have not been proofread at all. They're just what I noted during the conference.

The notes have not been proofread. Please do your research before you pick anything from this post. It is meant to be a rough sketch of everything that I heard and noted at the conference. Since quite a bit of this is new to me, it is bound to be inaccurate, unspecific, and possibly even incorrectly quoted.

Day 2 - Collective information storage by stochastic model of structural plasticity
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#. If animal is learning, spine formation and destruction is much higher.
#. Model of structural plasticity

   #. Neural activity.
   #. Synaptic weights.
   #. Network structure.
   #. Weight is directly proportional to spine volume
   #. Spine volume is directly proportional to spine stability
   #. Stochastic
   #. P(removal), P(formation)
   #. Calibrated using experimental data.
   #. Post synaptic correlation stabilises synaptic weight.
   #. Synapses between 2 neurons don't know about each other.

Limited range correlations, when modulated by firing rate, can substantially improve neural population coding
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Noisy population coding problem.
#. Retina displays rate dependent correlations that strongly enhance population codes.

Day 3 - Gerstner Keynote
------------------------

#. Model scales

   #. Population rate model (Wilson Cowan) -> *coarse graining* -> phenomenological model (LIF) -> *simplification* -> biophysical (Hodgkin-Huxley).
   #. CITE: Harris & Shepperd 2015 - populations of neuron and classification.
   #. Parameter extraction
   #. Adaptation
   #. Generalised linear model (GLM) or spine response model (SRM).
   #. CITE: Gerstner and Naud 2009

#. Steps:

   #. Systematic optimisation of parameters

      #. Predict membrane potential -> quadratic error function
      #. We have potentials, now optimise spike timings.
      #. Very quick process
      #. Spikes and thresholds have an effect on functioning of neuron from about 10 seconds.

   #. Quantifying spike timing - 90% predictability
   #. CITE: Mensi et al. J. neurophsyiology 2011
   #. Allen Institute - high throughput work
   #. CITE: Naud and Gerstner 2012 - PLOS computational biology.
   #. Fluctuations are good because they ensure that multiple solutions are exhibited
   #. Finite size issue
   #. Power spectrum
   #. Schwalger et al. 2014 + poster at CNS
   #. For differential equations -> find fixed points -> linearise -> them other analysis.

Misc
----

#. Critical state -> functions of network are most efficient
#. Lots of evidence from models but only recently have they received experimental data - Poster 221
#. Disadvantages of criticality

   #. Fine tuning
   #. Slightly sub-critical is better.
