20200404: What I did this week
##############################
:date: 2020-04-04 10:49:50
:author: ankur
:category: Life
:tags: Computational neuroscience, Fedora, Open Source Brain, OCNS, NeuroFedora, SilverLab
:slug: 20200404-what-i-did-this-week
:summary: This is what I was up to this week!


.. raw:: html

   <center>

.. figure:: {static}/images/20200404-banner.jpg
    :alt: Picture of "Report" written on a blackboard in chalk kept on a desk with a calculator, a pen, clips
    :width: 70%
    :class: text-center img-responsive pagination-centered
    :align: center

    "Report" by `GotCredit <http://gotcredit.com>`__ `on Flickr
    <https://flic.kr/p/QGKX1P>`__ (CC-BY 2.0 license)

.. raw:: html

   </center>


I seem to be getting busier every day, and the only way I can seem to be able
to do all the work I want to is by staying extremely organised. An important
part of organisation is being able to look back at the work that was done, and
whether it could be done better---perhaps prioritised better---to make it all a
little more efficient. So, given that I haven't been blogging frequently over
the last year, I am trying to track the time I spend working more religiously
and write a short weekly work report. It gives me the chance to review the past
week.

So, in the weeks leading up to today, 4th April, this is what I have been up
to.

Dissertation writing
---------------------

I'm working on writing up my dissertation, at the end of my PhD now. I've made
good progress. I have another chapter or so to go before I should be able to
submit. My supervision team has been reviewing and editing individual chapters
as I finish them. We are already working on a paper, and the `pre-print
<https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2019/10/21/810846>`__ for this had gone
through multiple rounds of review. So the chapters that came from the paper
didn't need too much work. Another chapter is based on the reports I wrote for
my assessments (back in 2015!), but having it all written down also made it
easier to edit and add to the dissertation. I am extremely glad that my
supervision team got me to maintain a `daily lab journal
<https://github.com/sanjayankur31/calliope/issues>`__. It makes writing the
dissertation so much easier.

Research fellow at the Silver Lab at University College London
----------------------------------------------------------------

I was fortunate enough to secure a research fellow job at the `Silver Lab`_
while working on my dissertation. Generally, we PhD candidates submit our
dissertations and then spend a few months hunting for positions. From all
accounts, it's not meant to be an easy transition to a post-doc position. The
number of PhDs entering the job market easily outnumbers the number of
available research positions. So, I was also preparing for a few months of
unemployment---saving money primarily---while I hunted for positions after I
had submitted. In my case as an international migrant/expat/job stealer, my
employers would also have to sponsor my visa, and not all employers do that. If
I hadn't managed to find a position before my current student visa expired, I'd
have to return to India and continue applying from there. That makes it even
harder, and all the time one is not working on research, one is already falling
behind. So, transitioning on to a position while still writing up was a very
very lucky break for me.

The research group does a lot of experimental work, but it is also where the
`Open Source Brain`_ project is based. Given my computing background, and
experience with FOSS in `Fedora
<https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Ankursinha>`__, a large component of my
role is to work on the development of the `Open Source Brain`_ platform, and liaise
with MetaCell_ who do most of the core development. Along with that, I get to
work on modelling and other research projects. I was looking to work in a group
that included experimentalists. I think that it is important for me to develop
as an independent researcher in neuroscience.

It's early days yet. I am only two weeks in, so I am still settling down. Since
I am on a `Tier 4 student visa`_ at the moment, I can only work twenty hours a
week. That's about two days a week, and is really not enough to get a lot done,
especially given that it is meant to include the various meetings that I am to
attend. HR are working on getting me my Certificate of Sponsorship (CoS) so
that I can apply to transition on to a `Tier 2 work visa`_. It is similar to the
Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) that international students must get
from their universities before they can apply for their `Tier 4 student visa`_.
Sponsoring organisations can sponsor a limited number of internationals each
year, so we're waiting for the new cycle to start this month in April when UCL
will be able to sponsor more of us.

In the two weeks that I've been in, I've been learning the development process
that `Open Source Brain`_ follows: attending sprint meetings, and the sort.
I'll write a post dedicated to this in a near future. It is on my to-do list.
This week, we `diagnosed and fixed
<https://github.com/SilverLabUCL/docker-osq/pull/6>`__ an issue with the
current deployment. `Sendmail <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sendmail>`__ was
blocking the server because the `Docker <https://docker.io>`__ container hadn't
a `FQDN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FQDN>`__ as its hostname. The things we
learn. If you do find any issues with the `Open Source Brain`_ platform, please
file an issue (or e-mail me if you prefer).

There's more work to be done: the deployment is being moved off `AWS
<https://aws.amazon.com/>`__ on to the `Google Cloud Platform
<https://cloud.google.com/>`__. It's simple enough, but of course, the
deployment needs to be tested and validated before it can be declared live and
the AWS instance torn down.

I've also been learning how the research group works: getting to know the
people, what their interests are; attending the group discussions and journal
clubs; keeping an eye on various journals to share new science that may be
interesting to us. I've already learned quite a bit from the discussion. Given
the COVID situation, we're all working from home, so everything is happening
over Slack and video calls. I had managed to go to UCL for my induction in my
first week. I was the only one there for that particular session. Again, I was
lucky, since I expect that was the last induction session before UCL decided to
limit access.


Fedora
--------

We're nearing the Fedora 32 release, so I worked on the bits remaining for the
new `CompNeuroFedora`_ lab image.  Based on the discussion at the NeuroFedora_
meeting, I `passed all the information
<https://pagure.io/fedora-websites/issue/1010>`__ needed to set up a page for
the lab to the Websites team. 

The general package updates continue. I just updated Brian2_ to the new version
this morning and `pushed an update with a test case
<https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/?packages=python-brian2>`__.  The test
case takes one through the tutorial, so if one is looking to learn how to use
Brian2_, this is a good way of doing it while contributing to NeuroFedora_.
Another few bugs were fixed and `updates pushed
<https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/users/ankursinha>`__ too. I've got to work on
packaging a few new tools that are on the `list
<https://pagure.io/neuro-sig/NeuroFedora/issues?status=Open&assignee=ankursinha>`__.

On the `Fedora-Join <https://pagure.io/fedora-join/Welcome-to-Fedora>`__ front,
we've had a few more folks join the community to help out. It was lovely
chatting with new folks and discussing where and how they'd like to work with
the community. Needless to say, lots of cookie giving has occurred in the `IRC
channel <https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#fedora-join>`__.

I've also been thinking about the lack of a process for Community Changes in
Fedora. Why isn't there something similar to the `Change process that we use
for dev changes
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/program_management/changes_policy/>`__? I
finally `filed a ticket with the Council
<https://pagure.io/Fedora-Council/tickets/issue/291>`__. It's being discussed
on the `council-discuss mailing list
<https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/council-discuss@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/NT3JI4QIA7D2UJWCOV662FZHOV6BUBLJ/>`__.
I've also asked `Mindshare <https://pagure.io/mindshare/issue/197>`__ and
`CommOps <https://pagure.io/fedora-commops/issue/205>`__ to weigh in this
morning. Please feel free to jump in and discuss how we should go about this. A
change process that
focusses on community is important, in my book.

The Git forge discussion continues on the `-devel mailing list
<https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/devel@lists.fedoraproject.org/>`__,
so I've been keeping up with that. I would prefer Pagure myself, and I do
understand the CPE team's view even if I don't necessarily agree with it.


Organisation for Computational Neuroscience: OCNS
--------------------------------------------------

Things are quite quiet in OCNS_. The `Board
<https://www.cnsorg.org/board-of-directors>`__ has been discussing how best to
handle the `CNS*2020 <https://www.cnsorg.org/cns-2020>`__ conference. An
announcement will be made once a decision has been reached.

Review comments
-----------------

This turned out a lot longer than I'd expected. As I settle down to a weekly
post, it should get shorter. However, I do see that I've got lots going on, and
perhaps I do need to be more disciplined when accepting/volunteering for tasks,
and prioritising them once I've taken them up. I'm not `cookie-licking
<https://www.winglemeyer.org/ramblings/2019/01/07/cookie-cleanup.html>`__ at
the moment, so that's quite good. Still, lots to do.


.. _Silver Lab: http://silverlab.org/
.. _Open Source Brain: opensourcebrain.org
.. _MetaCell: https://metacell.us/
.. _Tier 4 student visa: https://www.gov.uk/tier-4-general-visa
.. _Tier 2 work visa: https://www.gov.uk/tier-2-general
.. _NeuroFedora: http://neuro.fedoraproject.org
.. _CompNeuroFedora: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/Comp_Neuro_Lab
.. _Brian2: https://briansimulator.org/
.. _OCNS: https://www.cnsorg.org/
