Google Summer of Code 2012: Some "things to remember" for prospective mentors
#############################################################################
:date: 2012-03-02 10:46
:author: ankur
:category: Tech
:tags: Fedora
:slug: google-summer-of-code-2012-some-things-to-remember-for-prospective-mentors

To start with, the `organization application deadline is March 9`_,
which is right around the corner. If you have some ideas for this year's
program, it's time to get them up on the `wiki`_!

I was a participant last year. Based on my experience, here are some
things that you may want to consider when signing up as a potential
mentor:

-  Do you have the time?
-  Are you well versed with the work involving your idea?
-  Is your idea long term or short term?

There must be a lot more of them, but this is all I can think of at the
moment. I'll talk about them one by one:

Do you have the time?
---------------------

This is most important IMO. You need  to have time to spare to be able
to talk to the student, to assist him if he needs it, to look at the
reports and give advice and feed back on the current status of his work.
Being a mentor does not mean asking the student to "Report to me
everyday" and then replying with a three lettered email that goes "ACK".
It is much more than that. Mentoring is an active task, be it for the
GSoC or Fedora Ambassadors. One needs to be available, all the time. You
are taking a student under your wing. It is your duty to help him
complete his task. If he fails to complete the GSoC, **it is as much
your fault as his**. It is also your duty to back him, to speak for him
if required. This is how relationships are forged in FOSS: out of
respect for each others' work, and as you get to know each other better,
out of respect for each other. 

If you consider mentoring to be a passive role where you sit back and
watch, please, *stay away*.

Are you well versed with the work involving your idea?
------------------------------------------------------


Well, you can't know the all the tiny details, obviously. However, are
you **qualified enough** to be able to do the task yourself? "Why?" you
ask? It's rather simple. The idea is yours, you think it could work. Why
did you think it could work? Did you do your research? Did you read up
on the capabilities of the libraries you suggest using? Yes, the student
will do his own research, but like I wrote earlier, *you are the
mentor*. By definition, a mentor guides the student. How would you guide
someone if you yourself are ignorant of the process? Ask your self this:
"If the student gets stuck, would I be in a position to bail him out? If
not, do I know people who'd have time to do the same?". 


Is your idea long term or short term?
-------------------------------------

The coding period at GSoC is **May 21 to August 20**. That is three
months of solid work. However, successful projects aren't made in three
months. Tasks, therefore, are generally specific to a certain area of a
project. They may be enhancement implementations, or bugfixes, or
optimizations and the sort. Even though these tasks are specific, they
have consequences in the long term for the project (rather, *they should
have consequences in the long term*). 

I guess what I'm asking you is: "In the long term, will the work done in
this GSoC period be counted on?". If the answer is "Yes", you should go
ahead right away! If the answer is a "No", I suggest you rethink your
idea and plans. An idea that receives a "No" on this question shows lack
of planning. It shows that there isn't a follow up plan for the work the
student will do. Remember that the student is only responsible for the
work done in the three months of the coding period, for the work he
planned under *your guidance*. The follow up plan is more your
responsibility than the student's. The student, who will generally be
new to the project, is not to be assumed capable of making long term
plans for it.

The gist of it all
------------------

I guess what I'm really trying to put across is the importance a mentor
holds. A mentor can make or break a GSoC project. A mentor can make or
break a potential contributor to the project. A mentor can even make or
break the entire project. It is not a role to be taken lightly. The
student relies on you. I do agree that FOSS follows a mostly self
learning paradigm. We don't like to spoon feed people. However, we do
point them into the correct direction, be it a man page, or just google.
As a mentor, you should have the time, the knowledge, the sincerity, the
morals to direct your student. You are very much accountable. 

Having pointed out the serious bits, **GSoC is a lot of fun**! I enjoyed
it thoroughly last year as a student. From the fedora mentors, I hear
they enjoyed it quite a bit too! Let's get some ideas on the board
people!

.. _organization application deadline is March 9: organization%20application%20deadline%20is%20March%209
.. _wiki: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Summer_coding_ideas_for_2012
