I really like Gnome3
####################
:date: 2013-03-07 17:09
:author: ankur
:category: FOSS
:tags: byobu, Evolution, Fedora, firefox, gnome3, Gnote, linux, screen, terminal x
:tags: byobu, Evolution, Fedora, firefox, gnome3, Gnote, linux, screen, terminal x
:tags: byobu, Evolution, Fedora, firefox, gnome3, Gnote, linux, screen, terminal x
:tags: byobu, Evolution, Fedora, firefox, gnome3, Gnote, linux, screen, terminal x
:slug: i-really-like-gnome3

The subject says it all. Since Gnome3 was released, or even in the
works, all I've read about it is negative. I assume there must be posts
that compliment it too, but forever reason, I've only run into what is
now termed "Gnome bashing". I'm not going analyse why people don't like
the new design; neither am I going to summarize why people should like
it; **I'm going to write down why it works for me**.

The first thing I must list are my requirements. When I boot up my
system, and login, without a thought, I run the following programs, in
order:

#. Gnome-terminal for a byobu/screen instance set up with irssi,
   rtorrent, htop, ncmpcpp, mc and additional bash screens
#. Gnote
#. Firefox
#. Evolution

It takes me less than a minute to get them running: Firefox, Gnote and
Evolution are on my **dash as my favourites** while a quick "alt f2
gnome-terminal -x byobo" pulls up the byobu instance. Sometimes, I even
use "alt f2" to start Firefox and the rest. The point, irrespective of
the method: **it's quick**. Mind you, I can configure gnome to start all
of these at each login too, but that would contribute to the time the
system takes to login and give me a usable interface. I resist the
temptation.

I use Evolution for multiple accounts: my Gmail account, my UTS account
on Microsoft Exchange, my Windows live account and my Facebook: all of
which were conveniently set up using "Online accounts". I can use them
for mail, calendar and chatting amongst the other cloud and storage
services. I generally limit my usage to mail + calendar + chat.

Once my applications are up and running, I limit most of my work to the
terminal instance, switching to Gnote for my TODO lists, or Firefox and
Evolution to glance at the web or my mails respectively. My calendar is
on the top panel, so I don't need to use the Evolution calendar view
unless I want to add a new appointment. A click suffices. Switching
between applications is very very easy. It's a simple "alt tab" to me.
If you're not a keyboard person, it's fairly simple to use the
activities overview to select another application. I've read that some
people have issues while switching between windows of the same
application: I haven't experienced this since a combination of "alt tab"
and "alt ~" works perfectly for me.

While I'm working, there are times I need to use other applications. For
instance, when my mother wants me to check something in her mail, I
really don't want to logout of my Google account and into hers on the
running Firefox instance. Instead, I use Ephiphany for such ad-hoc
tasks. I read somewhere that opening an application is a problem in
Gnome, apparently because the "app icon" isn't intuitive enough and it
takes 2 clicks to get to the application list. Being and android user,
the "app icon" tells me what it is. If you aren't an android user,
exploring the dash will bring up a "Applications list" pop up when you
hover over the icon. I don't think the 2 clicks trouble me either.
Here's the thing: I hardly ever make the two clicks. Typing "web" into
the search box in the activities menu brings up a bunch of web related
things. I only need to check out the entire list when I need to use one
of those applications that I use once a week or less. When this is the
case, an extra click does not erk me.

What else do I use? "Settings" is easily available in the user menu on
the top right. Bluetooth, network, volume, power management are all
there too. I have nautilus on my favourites list in the dash, when I'm
not using "mc".

I remember reading that changing the background in Gnome3 is an issue
too, since there isn't a right click on the desktop. When I tried to
change the desktop background the first time, I was already aware that a
right click on the desktop would not work. I went to the "Settings" tool
and found "Background" there. Since then, I type "Background" in the
activities menu search box and access "Background" directly. I've
noticed that the "Background" tool only lists images in the Pictures
folder, but doesn't look into folders there, i.e., it doesn't search
recursively. I'm not sure if this is a bug or intended behaviour, but
it's something that could annoy some people (Note to self: file a bug
requesting recursive listing after some research on the subject). The
"workaround" is to simply view your image in Shotwell, the default image
viewer, which lets you set the image as background.

On customizing Gnome3, I didn't need to. If you do, you should look at
the many extensions available. If you want to move the core components
around, the panel, the dash, the workspace switcher, you'd probably be
better off using another DE. (I can't think of a reason I'd want to move
them around personally.)

When I'm done using my system, I generally set it to hibernate. When I
want to power down, the "user menu" is right there. Since I have a
"Guest" user on my system, I do indeed have a logout option. There's an
extension to make this option permanent if I'm not mistaken. You can
also use "alt f2 gnome-session-quit", like I mostly do.

My father uses Gnome3. He's not a tech person. He's almost 60 and a
doctor by profession. He hasn't had much trouble using it (if he had,
he'd call me and go "how do you do $this?", and it hasn't happened over
the past six months at least).

In conclusion, it works for me (and my father). What's even better, it
works really well. I like to keep my fingers on the "home row" of my
keyboard all the time. Moving my fingers to access the mouse/touchpad
feels like a waste of time to me. In this environment, I can do almost
everything without using the mouse. (Yes, I can browse the internet
without using the mouse too: checkout Pentadactly for Firefox!). It's
incredibly efficient for the work flow that I follow personally.

I'd really like you to give it a go. However, when you do, don't do it
looking for a Windows style desktop. It's not what Gnome3 is trying to
be. Give it a go with the expectation of something new! If you're open
to learning a little, I'd think you'd be comfortable with the desktop
within a week.

A note: If you "Gnome bash" in a comment, I will not approve the
comment. It isn't because I can't take criticism, it's because I've had
enough of it. If it isn't working for you, you're free to criticize it
on your blog or chime in with the many already doing it.
