IISc- The Dept. of Computer Science & Automation : A workshop to introduce people to PhD
########################################################################################
:date: 2010-07-02 18:25
:author: ankur
:category: misc
:tags: IISC, PhD, 
:slug: iisc-the-dept-of-computer-science-automation-a-workshop-to-introduce-people-to-phd

The Department of Computer Science and Automation at the Indian
Institute of Sciences held a one day workshop to provide an insight to
faculty and students into the PhD programme. Luckily, I'm interning here
at the department and had the chance to attend it!

Here's the schedule that was followed:

    ``Ph.D. IN COMPUTER SCIENCE: A PERSPECTIVE``

    | ``A ONE-DAY WORKSHOP``
    |  ``ORGANIZED BY THE``
    |  ``DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND AUTOMATION``

    | ``SUPPORTED BY``
    |  ``UNIVERSITY GRANTS COMMISSION, GOI, NEW DELHI``
    |  ``VISVESVARAYA TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY, BELGAUM``

    | ``SATISH DHAWAN AUDITORIUM``
    |  ``INDIAN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE``

    ``Friday, July 2, 2010``

    ``PROGRAMME``

    | ``08.00 - 08.50 : Registration and Coffee``
    |  ``09.00 - 09.30 : Inauguration By``
    |  `` Prof. H.P. Khincha, Vice-Chancellor, VTU, Belgaum``
    |  `` Prof. Anurag Kumar, Chair, Electrical Sciences, IISc``

    | ``09.30 - 10.15 : The Ph.D. Process - Part 1``
    |  `` Prof.  Y. Narahari``
    |  ``10.15 - 11.00 : The Ph.D. Process - Part 2``
    |  `` Prof. Jayant Haritsa``

    ``11.00 - 11.30 : Coffee``

    | ``11.30 - 12.15 : High Performance Computing``
    |  `` Prof. R. Govindarajan and Prof. Matthew Jacob``
    |  ``12.15 - 13.00 : Machine Learning``
    |  `` Prof. Shirish Shevade``

    ``13.00 - 14.00 : Lunch``

    | ``14.00 - 14.45 : Theoretical Computer Science``
    |  `` Dr. V. Vinay``
    |  ``14.45 - 15.30 : Systems``
    |  `` Prof.  K. Gopinath``
    |  ``15.30 - 16.15 : Programming Languages``
    |  `` Dr. Sriram Rajamani``

    ``16.15 - 16.30 : Coffee``

    | ``16.30 - 18.00 : Interactive Discussion``
    |  `` Coordinator: Prof. D.K. Subramaniam``

I'm only a 7th semester UG student at the moment, but I made it a point
to attend as much as my mind could take. I attended everything apart
from the last "Interactive Discussion" program ;)

Since I intend to do a Masters (and hopefully a PhD) once I graduate, I
made lengthy notes on the event. The slides used by the various
professors will be put up on the department site in a few days.  I'm
going to summarize the introduction here.

The introductory speeches (I don't know what else to call them,
"talks"??) were most interesting. I had never been told or shown PhD
from such a clear perspective.

The first thing they emphasized on was that research done during a PhD
is not to  mean *re-searching* the already available knowledge. Rather,
it is more to do with *creating* knowledge. (I had never thought of it
like that!) We were then introduced shortly to Richard Hamming. They
suggested his work, "You and your research", as a read. I then learnt
the difference between *Applied Research*\ (Edison) and *Fundamental
Research*\ (Niels Bohr). (They had a graph mapping "consideration of
use"  to "fundamental research, getting down to the core" too but I'm
too lazy to make one and put it up). The introduction itself contained a
few example PhD "problems" from "GAME Theory". These were used to give
us a feel of what PhD research topics are like.  (I was thoroughly
enjoying this!!)  They even went ahead and explained the characteristics
of a good research topic, and explained what one needs to do this
research well (*Ingredients* of a successful research). From what I
noted down, one needs : a strong academic background, 6-8 courses
(ideally), good textbooks, a good knowledge of the current state of the
art, abstract, analytical modelling, sound experimentation.

Before this, I had only seen PhD theses on line at the ACM portal or
other places. Luckily, they went on to explain what a typical PhD thesis
was structured like. They made it clear that they didn't intend to make
it look like a flower bed when they went ahead and clearly enumerated
the *challenges* that you face when researching. Apart from a huge
amount of literature to read through, and time management and other
factors, I learnt that a good *Advisor* is a must. I learnt what the
correct attitude should be. It also involved welcoming criticism,
something that I already do (I was pleased to know that my attitude is
somewhat along the required lines already).

This was the introductory talk. Specific branches were tackled after
this. Writing down my views on those would take me an entire night!!

It was a completely new take I saw. I'm more than glad that I had the
chance to attend this Workshop. I'll put up links to the matter used
once they're available on the site.
