Microsoft shouldn't have played with us
#######################################
:date: 2009-11-25 05:35
:author: ankur
:category: Tech
:tags: Fedora
:slug: mircrosoft-shouldnt-have-played-with-us

Personally, I'm a FOSS lover. But that doesn't make me a "Microsoft
hater". It's a good OS, I just prefer to use Linux , Fedora.

Having said that, this blog post is going to show you how irresponsible
Microsoft can be.

**Some background::**\ I'm a 5th sem student at Manipal Institute of
technology, Manipal, India . My end semester exams just got over
yesterday, so technically I'm in 6th sem now ;) The exams were scheduled
(for CSE and IT branches )from the 14th to the 24th of November,
following which we have a winter break before college reopens on the 4th
of January next year. Since it's impossible to get tickets at the last
moment, the entire class (that's 150 people from computer science and
another 60-70 from the IT branch) had reservations to head home asap
after the 24th. So, I had a bus ticket for the night of the 24th to
Bangalore and a flight to New Delhi the same evening.

**The event::**\ Then!! One fine day, an announcement is made that
Microsoft's coming to college on the 29th-30th of Nov to test/interview
us and take "the best" as interns. Needless to say, anyone interested
would have to stay back after the exams. Well, helter-skelter  we went,
rescheduling trains, buses, flights. A few days later, the date is
rescheduled to the 26th -27th. Okay, no biggie, wasting a few days is
okay. Yesterday, **on the 24th** , two days before the supposed
interview, ***Microsoft isn't coming at all!!!*\ WTF???? How does that
work? Aren't they supposed to take some sort of responsibility? Causing
a hundred and fifty students to reschedule and waste money ( cost me
more than 1500 Rs to get my flight rescheduled ) and then leaving us
hanging here when we should be at home enjoying holidays? It's
preposterous not to forgetthoroughly UNPROFESSIONAL.**\ Such a company
wants to rule the software market? Haha.. joke.

I'm still in college and don't have much of an experience of the
"corporate world". BUT, I really din't expect it to be like this. Still
hard to digest. Have a good day!
