Text messaging woes
###################
:date: 2010-11-28 14:40
:author: ankur
:category: misc
:tags: Rant
:slug: text-messaging-woes

**Yes, it's a rant.**

**<rant>**

Recently, I came across this article on text-messaging, and how this
simple method of communication was taking over the world with more and
more users turning to their thumbs for communication. (I can't recall
where I came across the article sadly).

Well, text-messaging might be taking over the world in interactive
entertainment, but in my very honest opinion, it's still a crappy way of
actually communicating with one another. Broadly speaking, its a
`connection less protocol`_. It lacks sequencing AND delivery is not
guaranteed, neither is a time frame for delivery.(Added bonus: Operators
make most of it when they surprise us by charging messages on random
holidays without prior notice). It's really really REALLY irritating
when messages land up in random order, or do not land up at all, or land
up after half an hour during a conversation. You can't make out head to
tail of what just happened! Let's not ignore misinterpretation of
messages. It's highly unlikely that the sender and receiver read the
message in the same way, the tones vary, the expression has to be
assumed by the individual. Usually lands the two of you in the gutter. I
can't really miss out on mentioning the weird messages you get when
people don't understand that CAPITALS IMPLY SHOUTING. Messages from
random acquaintances when they need you to run an errand for them are
most special to me

I'm old school,. I prefer calling instead of texting (with rates in
India, calling isn't expensive). Socially speaking, texting lets you
stay in touch with a lot of people. So many people actually, that you
really lose track of whose actually worth keeping in touch with, and
whose an ass. Do me a favour, make a one minute call and tell the
concerned person what you need to? Restrict messages to mass
announcements which don't need ACKs, or for voting on your favouring TV
show. Would do the world a lot of good. Actually saves time and work.

I feel better now..

**</rant>**

.. _connection less protocol: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connectionless_protocol
