What have I been upto?
######################
:date: 2012-08-09 18:55
:author: ankur
:category: FOSS
:slug: what-have-i-been-upto

Quite a bit actually! I've recently moved to Sydney to pursue a Masters
of engineering (research) course. It's a two year course, which will
probably be followed by a Ph.D. I guess I'm in this for the long haul
now. I've been thinking of blogging since I got here. All the work and
running around has sucked up all my time though. Today, when I finally
decided to finish this task, I've forgotten everything that I wanted to
write!

.. raw:: html

   <div>

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

Firstly, Fedora related:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

I was shortly away from Fedora. The entire period was weird, because I'm
so used to working on random Fedora stuff, even if it's just hanging out
on #fedora. I've worked and finished up my backlogs: all my FTBFS bugs
have been squashed. I'm `reviewing libfreenect`_ which is a great
package for folks interested in using the `kinect`_ to do cool stuff. I
haven't been able to attend any of the APAC Ambassador meetings yet. The
time zone makes them on Saturday afternoons. I'm either out or sleeping
at the time. I'm looking to get back into marketing a little. `Ruth is
working to bring back marketing meetings`_, which is GREAT (Come join
in!). I'm going to try to bring back the Fedora pamphlet which we've
missed for previous releases.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

Sydney related:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

It's a huge change from India. I mean, as I mentioned to `bochecha`_
earlier over the IRC, the streets are almost empty at times. That's a
**rare** sight in India. The place is a little expensive in comparison.
(I'm still in the habit of converting my prices to INR. I'll lose it in
a while as I get settled.) The university has taken great pains to help
us international students get settled too, so it's all been smooth
sailing really. The people here are really friendly, always ready to
help :). Accomodation is generally a hassle, but I was brainy enough to
get my hands on university housing as soon as I heard of it.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

I've just only begun working on my thesis subject. It's related to robot
navigation. I still need to review literature in the field and find a
gap I want to plug. I'm working on it. I get weird ideas all the time.
It takes a while to follow them up and see if they're feasible though
(None of them have been feasible yet). I'm also helping with some
research my supervisor's other students have taken up related to
intertial navigation systems. I need to use a sensor for this purpose. I
really haven't any background in electronics, but I'm learning quickly.
The **fedora electronics lab mailing list** has been helpful too
(Thanks!). Tomorrow I'm supposed to work with the `NAO`_. It's really
great to be able to work with all this hardware. The one thing that bugs
me is that most of this is properitory software/hardware. You need to
purchase everything, from drivers, simulators, you name it. NAO is going
to be open sourced according to `this press release`_, but that's the
last I've heard about it. All the software and hardware specifications
is still properitory and requires an NDA. (Interestingly, the NAO uses
linux as it's OS). They do support Linux, but the support is really
limited compared to their support for Windows. Maybe we need to focus on
research tools a little more? A majority of the researchers seem to use
Windows with Matlab installs. (That's irritating too). I'm trying to
port all the existing Matlab code to C/C++ just so I can continue using
my Fedora system.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

|image0|

.. raw:: html

   </div>

I've fortunately found football and beer people, so I do have some
recreation. There are music clubs etcetera that I could join too. I
haven't join any though, not knowing how much time I'll have research in
the future. I'm still scouting the area for cheap pubs that play rock
though. I guess it'll take me some time to find those.

My darling sister cooks and gives me tiffins every week, so I pretty
much don't have to cook or spend extra on eating out. Perks of having an
elder sibling ;)

Ok. I can't think of anything else at the moment! The post is random
enough! Have fun! I'll see you folks around Fedora! Cheers!

.. _reviewing libfreenect: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=690026
.. _kinect: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinect
.. _Ruth is working to bring back marketing meetings: http://lists.fedoraproject.org/pipermail/marketing/2012-August/014409.html
.. _bochecha: http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Bochecha
.. _NAO: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nao_(robot)
.. _this press release: http://developer.aldebaran-robotics.com/press/open/

.. |image0| image:: http://ankursinha.in/wp/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/libfreenect-glview.png?w=300
   :target: http://ankursinha.in/wp/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/libfreenect-glview.png
